docs: add Select copy guidelines (#670)
cultureamp/kaizen-design-system: draft-packages/select/KaizenDraft/Select/README.mdx

## To keep in mind

A single-select lets the user choose one option from 4 or more items. A multi-select lets the user choose multiple options from 4 or more items. For fewer items, consider using a different component.

### Anatomy

*   **Select label:** the form field label that states what this field controls.
*   **Select control:** clicking this expands and collapses the dropdown container and shows the currently selected option/item.
    *   **Selected option/item:** the currently selected option is always shown. In rare cases, no option may be selected and a prompt would be listed here.
*   **Select dropdown container:** contains the available options/items. It is always shown above other elements, including the edges of modals.

### Number of options

*   If there's more than 5 options, consider showing options in alphabetical order or other predictable ordering for easy scanning.

> *   If there's more than 10 options, provide another method of accessing the options such as an autocomplete search or using smart defaults by surfacing recommended options.

Reviewer: Should this be `If there are ...` rather than `If there’s ...`

### Styling

> Use a secondary select for less prominence and where there's limited space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a secondary select for less prominence and where there’s limited space.
```

### Search

> There’s an option to turn on or off search in the input part. When the options are likely known and there are more than 10, use search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There’s an option to turn on or off search in the input part. When the options are likely known and there are more than 10, enable search.
```

*   **De-selecting:**
    *   Single-select: where necessary, the user can de-select the selected item by clicking or tapping on a clear icon. Once removed, show placeholder text, such as “Select or search…”. Alternatively, you might require that a value is always selected so de-selecting is achieved by choosing a different option.
    *   Multi-select: the multi-select shows selected items as tags and removes selected items from the dropdown part so that you cannot accidentally select an item twice. The user can de-select selected items using by clicking or tapping the clear icon shown in the dismissible [Tags](/components/tag).
*   **Loading state:**
    *   We can lazy load items to be shown in the single-select on search
    *   Shows loading spinner
*   **Disabled state:**
    *   See [Interaction states guidelines for disabled elements](/guidelines/interaction-states#disabled-state).
*   **Keyboard accessibility** is tricky in Selects and needs regular testing.

## Copy guidelines

To be scannable and fully helpful, an individual select must have a **visible label** that describes what it is selecting.

> In contrast, for a **row of selects** such as a filter bar, you may use a single, shared visible label for the group, such as "Filters". You may then use visually hidden labels for each individual select to be read by screen readers and other assistive devices. In that case, use a good default for each field's pre-selected option to illustrate its use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast, for a **row of selects** such as a filter bar, you may use a single, shared visible label for the group, such as “Filters”. You may then use visually hidden labels for each individual select to be read by screen readers and other assistive devices. In that case, use a good default for each field’s pre-selected option to illustrate its use.
```

> For an individual select, here's what you need to know:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For an individual select, here’s what you need to know:
```

### Give it a clear, short label

Make sure your select has a short, descriptive label above it that describes what the user is changing by selecting an option. Keep in mind that your label shouldn’t contain instructions. Reserve those for the helper text.

<DoAndDontContainer>
<Do>

- Email address
- Full name

</Do>

<Dont>

- Your email address
- Full name of employee

</Dont>
</DoAndDontContainer>

### Use minimal punctuation

> Don't use trailing colons and avoid phrasing your labels as questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don’t use trailing colons and avoid phrasing your labels as questions.
```

<DoAndDontContainer>
<Do>

- Viewed by
- Start date

</Do>

<Dont>

- Viewed by:
- When did this person start?

</Dont>
</DoAndDontContainer>

### For filters, be explicit

> To avoid ambiguity, use "by" and "to" where appropriate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid ambiguity, use “by” and “to” where appropriate:
```

<DoAndDontContainer>
<Do>

- Viewed by
- Compared to

</Do>

<Dont>

- Viewed
- Comparison

</Dont>
</DoAndDontContainer>

### When no option is selected

> In rare cases, there may be no option selected, such as in a form where "good default" makes sense, so we prompt the user to select an option. The select control will tell the user what to do instead of showing a selected option using the verb “Select”:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In rare cases, there may be no option selected, such as in a form where “good default” makes sense, so we prompt the user to select an option. The select control will tell the user what to do instead of showing a selected option using the verb “Select”:
```

A single-select lets the user choose one option from 4 or more items. A multi-select lets the user choose multiple options from 4 or more items.

*   Label:
    *   Show a label for the select that describes what the options control.
        *   Where appropriate you might instead use a label for a group of controls that includes the select.
        *   Where appropriate you might use a good default value that is self-evident, explaining what the options control.
*   Anatomy:
    *   Select input: shows the currently selected option.
    *   Select dropdown menu: shows the available options. It is always shown above other elements, including the edges of modals.
*   5+ or 10+ options:
    *   If there's more than 10 options, provide another method of accessing the options such as an autocomplete search or using smart defaults by surfacing recommended options.

>     *   If there's more than 5 options, consider showing options in alphabetical order or other predictable ordering for easy scanning.

Author: No difference, interchangeably used terms.
